---
layout: single
title:  "석사 학위 논문: A GPT-based Code Review System for Programming Language Learning"
categories: 석사_컴퓨터공학
tag: [석사_컴퓨터공학]
toc: true















---

# 논문 정보

- 제목(영어): A  GPT-based Code Review System for Programming Language Learning 
- 제목(국문): 프로그래밍 언어 학습 지원을 위한 GPT 기반 코드 리뷰 시스템
- 저자: 이동규(본인)
- 종류: 컴퓨터공학 석사 학위 논문
- arxiv: 업로드 완료 후 심사 대기중
- 키워드: Large Language Models (LLMs), GPT-4, Programming Language Education, Learner-Friendly Code Reviews

---

# **A  GPT-based Code Review System for Programming Language Learning**

 <br />

**Lee Dong-Kyu**

Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, 

University of Hanyang Seoul, 

Republic of Korea

 <br />

---

# Abstract

The increasing demand for programming language education and growing class sizes require immediate and personalized feedback. However, traditional code review methods have limitations in providing this level of feedback. As the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT for generating accurate solutions and timely code reviews are verified, this research proposes a system that employs GPT-4 to offer learner-friendly code reviews and minimize the risk of AI-assist cheating.

 <br />

To provide learner-friendly code reviews, a dataset was collected from an online judge system, and this dataset was utilized to develop and enhance the system’s prompts. In addition, to minimize AI-assist cheating, the system flow was designed to provide code reviews only for code submitted by a learner, and a feature that highlights code lines to fix was added. After the initial system was deployed on the web, software education experts conducted usability test. Based on the results, improvement strategies were developed to improve code review and code correctness check module, thereby enhancing the system. 

  <br />

The improved system underwent evaluation by software education experts based on four criteria: strict code correctness checks, response time, lower API call costs, and the quality of code reviews. The results demonstrated a performance to accurately identify error types, shorten response times, lower API call costs, and maintain high-quality code reviews without major issues. Feedback from participants affirmed the tool’s suitability for teaching programming to primary and secondary school students. Given these benefits, the system is anticipated to be a efficient learning tool in programming language learning for educational settings.